README.md, before:

# IoT Hackathon 2018

## RSVP and Event Details 

Pleaase RSVP on Eventbrite if you haven't already: [iot-hackathon-2018.eventbrite.com](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/iot-hackathon-2018-tickets-36977144635).

## Pre-Hackathon Events 
- [Introduction to IoT](https://www.meetup.com/Women-Who-Code-Portland/events/248234421/) Workshop -- 
[review slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1LfXI2aWKSoxYUCInwSsWgxw272ZSW7YMr65wycyVhkU/edit#slide=id.g3469160102_2_75).
- [Installfest](https://www.meetup.com/Women-Who-Code-Portland/events/245945228/) -- Thurday, March 22 at 5:30 PM at Puppet

## Friday Logistics
- **Event Start** -- The event will begin at 6 PM with food and the Sponsors Fair. At 7 PM, there will be a welcome from WWCode Portland 
and Lightning Talks.
- **Sponsors Expo** -- Friday will begin with a Sponsors Expo featuring some of the most innovative tech companies in Portland. If you 
are looking for a new opportunity, this will be a great oppotunity to network.
- **IoT Lightning Talks** -- we are scheduled to have two IoT lightning talks
- **Team Assignments** -- We will assign teams to make sure the teams are well-balanced. If you already have you own team and do not 
want to be assigned, please let us know at check-in.

## Idea Brainstorming

To discuss ideas with other participants prior to the event, join the tricider brainstorm session we have set up 
[here](https://www.tricider.com/admin/3E2sZgVMiRJ/4q8ooN5iJ6F).

## Hardware + What to Install

Our primary hardware is from Adafruit ([hardware list](https://www.adafruit.com/wishlists/457925)). We also have Arduino 101 kits provided
by Intel.

You will need to install the **Arduino IDE** to program the device. Depending on your operating system, you may require drivers for the
**Feather HUZZAH**. Follow the instructions [here](https://learn.adafruit.com/adafruit-feather-huzzah-esp8266/using-arduino-ide) to install drivers and run the *Blink Test* and the *Connecting via WiFi* to make sure your system and WiFi are set up correctly.

### Install Steps (from the Installfest)
1. https://learn.adafruit.com/adafruit-feather-huzzah-esp8266
2. Installl the CP2104 VCP Drivers
3. Install the Arduino IDE here!: https://arduino.cc/download
- Add ESP8266 boards
- Preferences > Additional Board Manager URLs
- Board Manager – Search for ESP8266
4. Run Blink Code
- File > Examples > ESP8266 > Blink
- Click Verify (If you don’t have a device)
- Click Upload (If you do have a device)

Adafruit has several setup tutorials, videos, and articles available to help you familiarize yourself with the platform.
- [Setup and Hello World](https://learn.adafruit.com/adafruit-io-basics-esp8266-arduino?view=all)
- [Adafruit IO Guides](https://www.adafruit.com/product/2680#tab_learn)
- [learn.adafruit.com](https://learn.adafruit.com/)

## Communication

Please make sure you sign up for the [WWCode Portland Slack community](https://bitly.com/wwcpdx-slack) and join the 
[#event-hackathon]() channel.  

## Event Hashtag

The event hashtag is [#WWCodeHack18](https://twitter.com/hashtag/WWCodeHack18?src=hash). Tweet with this hashtag and/or tag us 
in your tweets: [@wwcodeportland](https://twitter.com/wwcodeportland).

## Weekend Schedule

####  Friday
6:00 - Doors Open + Dinner (Aprisa Mexican Cuisine) + Sponsors Expo

7:00 - Welcome from Women Who Code + IoT Lightning Talks

7:45 - Break for Sponsors Expo

8:15 - Team assignments are announced

#### Saturday
9:00 AM - 9:00 PM - Teams are hacking on their projects and mentors are assisting

9:00 - Breakfast (Pop Bagels)

12:30 - Breakfast (Theo's - sandwiches)

6:00 - Dinner (Hotlips Pizza)

#### Sunday
9:00 AM - 1:30 PM - Teams are hacking on their projects and mentors are assisting

9:00 - Breakfast (Green Zebra - assorted pastries)

12:30 - Lunch (World Food - Mediterranean)

1:30 - Announcements from Women Who Code

2:00 - Presentations + Demos Begin

4:30 - Winners Announced

## Happy Hacking!

Commit message:

Clarify some of the installation instructions.

README.md, after:

# IoT Hackathon 2018

## RSVP and Event Details 

Pleaase RSVP on Eventbrite if you haven't already: [iot-hackathon-2018.eventbrite.com](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/iot-hackathon-2018-tickets-36977144635).

## Pre-Hackathon Events 
- [Introduction to IoT](https://www.meetup.com/Women-Who-Code-Portland/events/248234421/) Workshop -- 
[review slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1LfXI2aWKSoxYUCInwSsWgxw272ZSW7YMr65wycyVhkU/edit#slide=id.g3469160102_2_75).
- [Installfest](https://www.meetup.com/Women-Who-Code-Portland/events/245945228/) -- Thurday, March 22 at 5:30 PM at Puppet

## Friday Logistics
- **Event Start** -- The event will begin at 6 PM with food and the Sponsors Fair. At 7 PM, there will be a welcome from WWCode Portland 
and Lightning Talks.
- **Sponsors Expo** -- Friday will begin with a Sponsors Expo featuring some of the most innovative tech companies in Portland. If you 
are looking for a new opportunity, this will be a great oppotunity to network.
- **IoT Lightning Talks** -- we are scheduled to have two IoT lightning talks
- **Team Assignments** -- We will assign teams to make sure the teams are well-balanced. If you already have you own team and do not 
want to be assigned, please let us know at check-in.

## Idea Brainstorming

To discuss ideas with other participants prior to the event, join the tricider brainstorm session we have set up 
[here](https://www.tricider.com/admin/3E2sZgVMiRJ/4q8ooN5iJ6F).

## Hardware + What to Install

Our primary hardware is from Adafruit ([hardware list](https://www.adafruit.com/wishlists/457925)). We also have Arduino 101 kits provided
by Intel.

You will need to install the **Arduino IDE** to program the device. Depending on your operating system, you may require drivers for the
**Feather HUZZAH**. Follow the instructions [here](https://learn.adafruit.com/adafruit-feather-huzzah-esp8266/using-arduino-ide) to install drivers and run the *Blink Test* and the *Connecting via WiFi* to make sure your system and WiFi are set up correctly.

### Install Steps (from the Installfest)
These instructions largely follow https://learn.adafruit.com/adafruit-feather-huzzah-esp8266/using-arduino-ide You can find more details and screenshots there.

1. Install the CP2104 VCP Drivers (not necessary for Linux): https://www.silabs.com/products/development-tools/software/usb-to-uart-bridge-vcp-drivers
2. Install the Arduino IDE here!: https://arduino.cc/download
- Add ESP8266 boards
- There's a text box under "Preferences > Additional Board Manager URLs". In the text box, enter http://arduino.esp8266.com/stable/package_esp8266com_index.json
- Tools -> Board -> Board Manager – Search for ESP8266, then click the Install button.
3. Run Blink Code
- File > Examples > ESP8266 > Blink
- Click Verify (If you don’t have a device)
- Click Upload (If you do have a device)

Adafruit has several setup tutorials, videos, and articles available to help you familiarize yourself with the platform.
- [Setup and Hello World](https://learn.adafruit.com/adafruit-io-basics-esp8266-arduino?view=all)
- [Adafruit IO Guides](https://www.adafruit.com/product/2680#tab_learn)
- [learn.adafruit.com](https://learn.adafruit.com/)

## Communication

Please make sure you sign up for the [WWCode Portland Slack community](https://bitly.com/wwcpdx-slack) and join the 
[#event-hackathon]() channel.  

## Event Hashtag

The event hashtag is [#WWCodeHack18](https://twitter.com/hashtag/WWCodeHack18?src=hash). Tweet with this hashtag and/or tag us 
in your tweets: [@wwcodeportland](https://twitter.com/wwcodeportland).

## Weekend Schedule

####  Friday
6:00 - Doors Open + Dinner (Aprisa Mexican Cuisine) + Sponsors Expo

7:00 - Welcome from Women Who Code + IoT Lightning Talks

7:45 - Break for Sponsors Expo

8:15 - Team assignments are announced

#### Saturday
9:00 AM - 9:00 PM - Teams are hacking on their projects and mentors are assisting

9:00 - Breakfast (Pop Bagels)

12:30 - Breakfast (Theo's - sandwiches)

6:00 - Dinner (Hotlips Pizza)

#### Sunday
9:00 AM - 1:30 PM - Teams are hacking on their projects and mentors are assisting

9:00 - Breakfast (Green Zebra - assorted pastries)

12:30 - Lunch (World Food - Mediterranean)

1:30 - Announcements from Women Who Code

2:00 - Presentations + Demos Begin

4:30 - Winners Announced

## Happy Hacking!
